Hello everyone, today we are going to
start a new adventure in gregtech 6.
as we look around, we notice some surface rocks
which we can collect and use to craft our first
axe. which can be crafted witouth crafting table.
this axe is cheap and capable of chopping down
multiple logs at once, but it's
slow and it has a low durability.
but that's also because we made
this axe out of marble pebbles.
and if we look around a little bit more,
we can indeed find some better rocks.
and after spending enough time collecting rocks,
we figured out that red granite is the best one.
tools made out of this rock can even harvest
obsidian, but the speed isn't that good and
sicne those tools are still made out of
pebbles, the durability is quite low.
but that's not much of a big
deal, since we can just look
around pebbles to find more of that material.
once we locate the solid rock, we just have to
break the stone twice with a hammer to obtain
all of the pebbles we could possibly need.
to get better tools we will want to process some
metals, but first we will be looking for a nice
place where we can start building our industry.
since we might need chlorine in the future,
setting by the seaside is probably a good idea.
and that totally wasn't an excuse so we could have
a nice sea house with view on the sun set.
and after all of that work, we can finally
rest a little bit while eating some
sweet berries we found on our way.
and that's when we found out that
eating too many sweets isn't healty.
the next day we decided to start working
on a proper garden to fix our diet,
but after removing some rocks we figured out there
was a high concentration of copper in our soil.
we started digging deeper to investigate, and we
eventually found more and more copper-rich rocks.
but copper on it's own is
an awful material for tools.
to make it stronger we have to add some
of the tin we also found in our backyard.
but to properly alloy together those two
metals, we have to heat up the mixture at 1400K.
that has do be done inside a crucible,
which we can easily craft with some clay.
to heat it up, we turn on a burning
box underneath the crucible.
now we just have to throw the raw ingredients
in and wait for everything to melt.
once the mixture turned the right color and we
can pour out the molten petal into a pickaxe mold.
to celebrate the advent of bronze age,
we can make a jumbo sandwich which we
can eat in a single bite.
and that's how long it
took for our crucible to turn yellow.
and before we could even finish that phrase,
the crucible melted.
indeed, in gregtech 6,
everything has a melting point.
how quickly we reach that temperature
depends on the thermal mass we are trying to heat
up and how much ehat energy we add to the thing.
while we can guess the current temperature
just by looking at the color of the crucible,
a better way is to craft a thermometer.
to craft it , we will need some mercury,
so we adventured in search of new minerals.
during our exploration, we found huge deposits
of coal and huge deposits of iron-rich sand
underground we found all sorts of ores,
some of which were rather hard to notice.
we also found a weird building.
once inside, it turned out to be an abandoned
base stocked with many different chemicals and
a huge amount of all sorts of metals.
we even found already worked metal
parts in some nearby drawers.
and as if all of those goodies
weren't enough, we even found the holy
grail of the bronze age: a lighter.
this one has a 100% success rate, and we
even have some spare propane to refill it.
and while we found mercury in this place, we still
explored more areas to secure a proper source.
we crossed multiple dimensions, until
we finally found a redstone vein, which
also contains cinnabar, a mercury-rich metal.
we processed the raw ore to increase the yield,
finally heated it up to extract
some mercury for our thermometer.
with this, we can finally measure temperature
more precisely, easing the metal alloying process.
the next step was to connect our
thermometer to a redstone sensor,
allowing us to automate metal alloying.
to do so, we first configure our new
digital thermometer with the correct
temperature, then we connect it to the
molds and enable out output on redstone.
next we configure a pair of hoppers with
the correct input ratio, and to
avoid overfilling our crucible,
we use a properly configured weight sensor
and this simple system can easily be
expanded to allow for more complex
alloys, such as stainless steel.
while this has many usages, we are
also going to need some normal steel,
which is made by pumping air in a crucible.
to do so, we will have to input kinetic
energy to the crucible. we can do that
by vibrating it using a steam engine.
running this machine will require some steam,
which we can produce by boiling water inside
some boilers, which we heat up using the same
burning boxes we can use to heat up crucibles.
now that we managed to obtain steels we can do
many things, starting from a bigger crucible.
this one will be able to fit multiple blocks
of material, easing the melting process.
and the reason why we have minerals
in the form of cubic meter-sized dust
is our new ore processing plant
the first step is to run our raw
ores in a crusher, which will break
the big rocks into smaller chunks.
then we run those crushed rocks in a sluice to
separate the stone from the actual minerals.
next we run the purified ores through a
centrifuge to filter out more byproducts.
finally, we macerate all of the centrifuged ores
in a shredder to get everything in dust form.
however, those dusts won't all have the same size.
to properly sort out all of those dust,
we use a system of hoppers and funnels to
first cluster all of the dusts into small
size and then into full blocks.
while most of those can be melted
into pure metal using a crucible,
others require some extra refinement.
so we built some ore-specific processing
lines, like this one for aluminum.
to obtain this MV material we had to use an
electrolyzer, and you may be wondering why we
aren't using electricity for other setups.
well, there are two main reasons.
the first one is the horrible
efficiency of transforming energy.
and here i really want to be pedantic
on what i mean with energy loss.
we start with a 25% loss when burning materials
to produce the heat units required to boil water.
then, a boiler will convert that heat
into steam. if we use distilled water,
this process will be perfectly efficient.
we pipe the steam to a turbine,
which will dissipate 1/3 of the energy
while using the hot gas to spin a rotor.
this will produce rotation units,
which we shaft to a dynamo.
here, after losing almost one more third of our
energy to friction, we finally get electricity.
then we have the usual cable
loss, which here is negligible.
and after losing more than half of the
starting energy, we figured out that
most machines don't use electricity.
so have to deal with losing an other
half of our electric energy to convert
it back to whatever we actually needed.
the second issue is that, right now, we can only
shut off machines by cutting the power feed.
so, if we want to have the comforts of
electricity versatility for machines that
don't require too much power, we will want some
machine switch covers and also some battery boxes.
however, both of those things will require
some circuits, and even the lowest tier of
circuit requires plastic and silicon boules.
while the main issue of silicon is a bit of
inert gas and processing time, making plastic has
a mandatory titanium tetrachloride requirement
since we needed just a few drops, we manually
handled all sorts of chemicals to process some
of the bauxite leftovers into titanium.
chemical reactors aren't a thing here,
so we had to deal with all sort
of never-seen-before machines
and after carefully measuring the correct amount
of ingredients, we made our first plastic.
with that we had every required ingredient,
so we proceeded into quickly working
everything into our first electric circuit.
we used those to craft some machine switch
covers, and then we proceeded
into building our LV workshop.
and since some machines don't have an
integrated motor, we still use some bronze
machines powered by a dedicated electric motor.
we have already seen how inefficient that is,
but being able to instantly start
and stop those engines from the
batteries is really nice qol improvement.
also, there are some new forms of energy we can
derive from electriciy, such as magnetic units,
made from an electromagnet to power polarizers
and laser units, made by a CO2 laser, which will
have many usages in the future, but for now we
can use that for a laser engrave so that we can
make LuV circuits, the highest tier available.
with those we unlocked all sorts of cool
things, and our first objective is going to be
a nuclear reactor to fix our energy production.
to get started, we are going to fuel it using
uranium 238, which is super cheap and
will keep producing heat for 800 hours.
in this setup, we are using some ic2 coolant
to get the heat out of the reactor and bring
it to some heat exchangers, where, as
usual, we boil water to spin a turbine.
and this time, to avoid using expensive cables
that will also lose power, we made a long shaft
to our base, where we have a small dynamo that
slowly charges up our huge batteries already
sized for a bigger setup we will eventually build.
the first thing we will be using out new power
source for is a thermoelectric cooler to run our
new cryogenic distillation tower to obtain some
noble gasses for a nanoscale fabricator,
used to make graphene parts, which have
incredible stats despite begin super cheap.
notably, we can now make carbon crucibles,
capable of handling even the toughest materials.
we are going to heat it up with our new electric
heater, which perfectly manages temperature.
and what we just made is tungsten carbide,
used to make the better extruder
capable of doing all sorts of jobs.
however, all of those new machines
quickly drained our battery buffer.
it was clear we needed a bigger nuclear
reactor, and to speed up the crafting process,
we increased our efficiency by directly connecting
our heaviest machinery to our old nuclear reactor.
and after a lot of dense plates, we
finally completed our new reactor plant.
this time we are using 6 reactor cores filled
with a mix of different rods achieving a
production over 9000 heat units per tick.
we use some of that heat to keep the water
loop going and the rest goes into
heating two large invar boilers.
those will produce 16k liters of
steam per tick, which we use to spin
a large turbine with an output of 5k ru/t
finally, a large dynamo will convert that
into 4k eu/t, just below the Iv threshold.
the reason why the output isn't consistent
is that we aren't using that energy and the
batteries in our buffer and fully charged.